# 1.1.34

## Problem

Filtering. Which of the following require saving all the values from standard input (in an array, say), and which could be implemented as a filter using only a fixed number of variables and arrays of fixed size (not dependent on N)? For each, the input comes from standard input and consists of N real numbers between 0 and 1.

- Print the maximum and minimum numbers.
- Print the median of the numbers.
- Print the k th smallest value, for k less than 100.
- Print the sum of the squares of the numbers.
- Print the average of the N numbers.
- Print the percentage of numbers greater than the average.
- Print the N numbers in increasing order.
- Print the N numbers in random order.

## Solution

1. Maximum and minimum

- Use a fixed number of variables.
- Maintain two variables (one for the maximum and one for the minimum). With each incoming number, you update these variables as needed.

2. Median

- Save all the inputs.
- To find the median, you need to sort all the numbers and select the middle one (or average the two middle numbers if N is even), which necessitates having access to all the input values at once.

3. Kth Smallest Value

- Use a fixed size array or selection algorithm.
- By using an algorithm like Quickselect or maintaining a min-heap or max-heap of size k, we could find the kth smallest without saving all the values.

4. Sum of squares.

- Use fixed number of variables
- Maintain a running total of the squares of the numbers, updating it with each new input value.

5. Average of N numbers.

- Use only two varaibles.
- Maintain a running sum and a count of numbers. The average can be computed at the end by dividing the sum by the count.

6. Percentage of numbers greater than average.

- Save all the values.
- First compute the average of all numbers and then visit each number to count how many numbers are greather than this average.

6. N numbers in increasing order.

- Save all the values.
- Need to access to all the numbers to sort them.

7. N numbers in random order.

- Save all the values.
- Need to access to all the numbers to shuffle them.
